
Scripts on MTS side:
-------------------------------

crdbm.pl - creates sendrefndx file key - actual ref (f20) + amt +
crididbm.pl  - creates 
dbm.pl (new name FindTrn.pl )- use to fetch target trn using f20+amont+currency
dbmtst.pl (new name BuildTrnIndex.pl) - use to build the index file. Runs after the replay is complete

Sequence of events in ACI reply/compare 
1. Clean up MTS (especially send_ref_ndx)
2. Replay traffic and make sure all is processed
3. Run BuildTrnIndex.pl - creates sndrefndx.pag, sndrefndx.dir 
4. Run compare on the Sim

update localkeys set compexpression='R(?<Id>[_,A-Z,0-9]*)\^*(\,|\^)+'  where tabnameind=2 and cmpkey='description'

 This innovative style of exchanging EMR emerges from evolutionary changes, maturity, development 
 and advancements of technologies over the last 30 years in banking money transfer business. 
 It was enhanced, refined, and improved almost to perfection thruout this time.
 
 it is an evolutionary process that will require persuasion, arm twisting, following market forces by multiple
 health care providers like docs, hosp, labs, etc. to participate.
 
---- Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) is a standard for handling, storing, printing, 
 and transmitting information in medical imaging. It includes a file format definition and a network 
 communications protocol. The communication protocol is an application protocol that uses TCP/IP to
  communicate between systems. DICOM files can be exchanged between two entities that are capable of 
  receiving image and patient data in DICOM format. The National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) 
  holds the copyright to this standard.[1] It was developed by the DICOM Standards Committee, whose members 
  are also partly members of NEMA.

               EXCHANGE FORMATS
----- The HL7 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) is an XML-based markup standard intended to 
specify the encoding, structure and semantics of clinical documents for exchange. 
CDA is an ANSI-certified standard from Health Level Seven International (HL7.org). 

----- The Continuity of Care Document (CCD) specification is an XML-based markup standard intended to specify 
the encoding, structure, and semantics of a patient summary clinical document for exchange.


 BANKS:
  Microsoft Health Vault, Apple's HealthKit, Dossia, World Medical Card
 
 Electronic Health record System (EHRS) Health IT (HIT)

Strategy for approaching EHRS and HIT development

1. Current situation

US spends 16% of GDP on health care, the largest share among developed counties.
The inflation in health care is raising faster than in any other industry.
The political pressure to slow it down is tremendous. 

from Economist Special Report on Health Care Technology Apr 2009

2. Future estimates

RAND corporation estimates that if 90% of hospitals and doctors will use EHRS it could save $77 billion a YEAR
from efficiency alone.

from Economist Special Report on Health Care Technology Apr 2009

3. Current developments.

Companies are racing to develop software packages EFT to address EHRS and HIT
That is a good development although without comprehensive effort and coherent design
all will prove futile. 
One company could not create EHRS to be shared among all participants.

But one company could lead in establishing the direction for others to follow.
It should include standard development, comprehensive approach and strategy.

4. Obstacles.

1. The largest obstacle is security and acceptance from patients. The wary about safe keeping of the records
is huge. 
2. Doctors reluctance of participating in it because of extra cost, more work and most important security.
3. Danger of monolithic approach, data must be free to move on rival software.

5. Approach

This is an enormous task that will require approach similar to the financial organizations.
There will be need for standard information transferring networks similar to Swift, CHIPS in finance.
The process should be approached as banking business with all privacy considerations and 
security attributes. 

Similarity with baking evolvement.

At the beginning of banking there were a lot of branches across the country ( Individual Medical Accounts with 
different holders)
that had troubles to communicate in order to conduct banking business as we know it today.
The government realized the problem and created the Federal Reserve network. 
After that the banking became dynamic, accessible and more useful.
Since than other private and semi private networks sprang up like CHIPS and SWIFT - the survivors,
BankWire and other - extinct ones.
They allowed US dollar clearing and highly sensitive financial message exchanges around the globe. 
Any institution could become a member as long as it complies with rules and follow the communication protocol.
The medical record exchange will need similar approach. 

It took a while until people embraced online banking. During this process people started to get comfortable with
doing financial transaction over the net. That led to make people in charge of the management of their finances, 
giving instructions to the banks who to pay and how. This part varies from bank to bank.

The EHRS should be approached as such.
Each individual needs an account with EHRS holding company (similar to banks).
A person should be able to give instructions to the record holding company how to move 
his own records from one participating institution to another.
A record holding companies could charge fees for certain services. The market will regulate those fees
and services. (again similar to the banks)

Doctors, hospitals, laboratories should be mandated to transfer patient's data over to the specified institution
upon patient's request.
When  admitted to the hospital, a person gives authorization to the hospital or doctor to access the records.
Some work is being done to establish Medical Accounts for Individuals. The means of communications between
Individual Medical Account and Providers, Doctors, Laboratories needs to be addressed.
There is a need for secure communication among myriad of Providers, Doctors, Individuals, Laboratories etc. ,
maintaining unique Ids and addresses of each participant, 
garantiing secured delivery of each transaction and many more other aspects of modern exchanges.
It is a process that will be evolving through times. But the ball needs to start rolling and your Company could start
this process.



6. Need of the network.

This has to be addressed by creating a central communication hub. It could be private or semi private institution.
This organization will provide Doctors, Laboratories, Hospitals etc. with secure access and means to exchange 
information that is authorized by individual. 
Therefore, an exchange protocol has to be designed that will be a standard for ALL participants.
The current state of technology makes it very achievable. Cloud computing could offer inexpensive way for everybody
to participate. For individuals, it should be free. For providers, hospitals etc. it probably should be fee based service.


7. Tasks to address

Health records must be firmly controlled by patients, not doctors, hospitals or government.
Sense of security is an essential part to gain public trust. Again, it is very similar to the development of
the banking networks which talk to each other seamlessly around the globe.
Allow patient to manage, share, distribute own records (similar to banking transactions)



8. Potential usage of it


After a while individual records will become a commodity.
A person would be able to sell the data to big pharmaceuticals or research centers to  anonymously compile
data or for drug research.
Mining anonymous data could help docs to broad their experience which tremendously helps the patients.



Conclusion.

In today's political environment the health care is the highest priority and rightfully so.
It would be feasible to get favorable attention from politicians. 
There are a lot of funds available for this enormously important task.
Broad spectrum of benefits to doctors, hospitals, patients, the finally the country.
No other company is better suitable to lead this effort, 
Your achievement in storing and accessing data will speed up the introductions of necessary tools to start 
nationwide effort in EHRS.


About us.


We have been in the banking funds transfer business for over 25 years. 
Our vast experience includes protocol design and development, implementation large of MTS. ACH systems for the 
large financial institutions like Bank of America, JP Morgan Chase, Bank of NY.
We have a clear vision how to solve communication tasks, organize secure environment, network establishment etc.
This knowledge and experience could provide new angle to this important task.


