Problem

There is a serious challenge in testing the software in a high volume transaction processing business.
A simple little glitch leads to potentially enormous monetary  losses, damaged reputation, and affects large amount of clients.
Rectification becomes harder and more laborious.

The complexity of those software packages are exponentially increasing and detection of hidden problems become more challenging.

QA of high volume processing applications presents the following difficulties:

1. Large variety of different transaction types.
Currently the approach is to take a production day and run it thru the new software package.
Look for differences and identify deviation from the expected results.
High volume presents a serious challenge to this approach. 

2. Various types of transactions are scattered over different days.
The variety of transaction types are processed in different days. For example, different transactions come at end of month 
vs. the beginning of month. More complex traffic is processed at the end of year than in the middle of the month.
Since majority of those systems are international various national holidays come to play. The adjustments are to be made for 
this as well. 

3. Testing time constrains
The QA teams are under pressure to conduct necessary tests especially when the real production problem occurs. 
In this case the challenge is to quickly check ALL aspects with acceptable level of a mistake tolerance.
Today there is no assurance that proper test is conducted since it is purely under human control which is prone to error.
Before a major release more extensive tests are required. The acceptable level of error tolerance is high. On the other 
hand the time constrain is high as well. The solution is to throw more people to speed it up. That leads to higher probability
of human mistakes.

4. Expectation of the tests
The expectation for the tests are different. for example insignificant change that rectifies a particular problem does not
require a full scale test. Although, it may effect the other part of processing due to complexity of the system. 
Therefore the test is required to check the sanity of the application but not to the same degree as when the major software
release  is received.
The challenge here is to adjust testing requirements based on the expectation.

5. Eliminate similar type of transaction.
There are a lot of similarity in certain type of transaction. Often they present a large portion of daily traffic. 
Correlation among them are high. Therefore, it is desirable to limit them in testing procedures.



Desired results

1. ability to choose right number of transactions to conduct a test with an acceptable error tolerance

2. adjust the acceptable level based on the importance of the required tests

3. after adjusting, help to choose the right number and variety of transaction types to cover wide range of traffic

4. the selected traffic should represent the full spectrum of desired transactions

5. take into consideration the acceptable level of deviation from the desired results

6. report a margin of error at the end of the test

7. 